How to do interviews?
A. Before the interview
	1. carefully plan the interview guide
	2. Start with general topics you want to discuss and, then, design some questions that may help you answer your research questions
	3. Organise the topics and questions in a logical sequence, so that they are grouped into similar topics and develop from each other
B. TYPES OF INTERVIEW QUESTIONS – KVALE’S (1996) TYPOLOGY
	1. Introducing questions
	2. Follow up questions
	3. Probing questions- to get more detail
	4. Specifying questions- Such as ‘What happened when you said that?’ or ‘What did he say next?’
	5. Direct questions- Questions with a yes or no answer are direct questions
	6. Indirect questions- to get the interviewee’s true opinion
	7. Structuring questions- These move the interview on to the next subject.
	8. Silence
	9. Interpreting questions- ex- ‘Do you mean that…?’
C. QUESTIONS TO AVOID (ROBSON, 2002)
	1. too long Qs
	2. Double-barrelled questions, or questions that actually include more than one question
	3. Questions that include words that the participants may not understand
	4. Leading questions and biased questions
D. During the interview- Start with introducing yourself and your study. Explain the purposes of the study and remind the interviewee why you selected him or her for the interview. Also, explain the issues of confidentiality and how you will use the collected data. Explain that you will audio-record the interview…


Structured Interviews
1. questions are planned and created in advance
2. all are asked the same Qs
3. easy to compare their answers
4. evaluate candidates in an objective and fair way
5. harder and more complicated to develop


Unstructured Interviews
1. the interviewer asks questions which are not prepared in advance
2. questions arise spontaneously in a free-flowing conversation
3. personalised approach
4. more casual, which puts the candidates at ease, resulting in a more natural and honest interview
5. harder to compare their answers and evaluate candidates equally and objectively


