Types of Questions:
1. general- ex- demographic
2. open-ended- considered supplementary
3. closed (pre-categorised)- ex- scalar, ranked, multi-choice


Developing Questions:
1. avoid universal questions
2. ask people to comment on a particular software they like & find easy to use
3. convert answers into questions 


Questionnaires | Categorizing reponses:
1. binary- yes or no
2. simple checklist- yes, no, don't know
3. multipoint rating scale- very useful, neutral, not at all useful
4. Likert scale- asks for strength of agreement with a statement, ex- strongly agree, neutral, strongly disagree
5. semantic differential scale - slide 7 (week-4-L04-Data-Collection.pdf)
6. ranked order- ex- 1 indicates most important, 4 the least
7. multiple choice- 


Asking the wrong question:
1. the double question
2. the wrong choice question- ex- is your hair pink, purple or green?
3. the kitchen sink question- ex- Please list all the computers you have used in the last five years, what you used them for and why you changed, elaborating wherever possible with additional relevant detail.
4. the fuzzy word question- ex- Do you frequently have problems using the system?
5. the universal question- ex- What do you think of the manuals?
6. the jargon question
6. leading question- ex- Why are you happy using this machine?


Qualitative and Quantitative Data
Quantitative:
1. information represented in the form of numbers which represent the results of a measurement process
2. provide data in a consistent way
3. enable comparisons
4. statistical analysis
Qualitative:
1. verbal/written descriptions of behaviour and experience from processes of observation, interpretation and analysis
2. to get at what’s really going on between user and machine


Two kinds of evaluation
Formative evaluation:
1. highly specific
2. to help change
3. goes on throughout development
4. monitoring
5. identifying
Summative evaluation:
1. general
2. to record
3. done on completion stages
4. summarising
5. describing


Observation
1. watch users at work
2. ask questions
3. interaction of environment with tasks
strengths:
1. unobtrusive
2. can be done in real life settings
3. extraneous factors- ex- environment, interruptions, workplace atmosphere etc
limitations:
1. can't measure intention, feelings, satisfaction
2. can record what's happening but not why


Structured Diary
1. users keep a diary recording for ex- when they got stuck, what the problem was etc
strengths:
1. uncovers long term usage problems
2. highly specific
3. inexpensive
limitations:
1. getting users to complete them
2. trainings may be needed


Surveys/Questionnaires
1. identify what you want to find out
2. who has the information
3. select representative sample
4. formulate introduction & questions
5. pilot test
6. collect data
7. analyse
questionnire administration:
1. individual- researcher present
2. group- researcher present
3. mail
4. web- can save money
5. phone- quick feedback from many respondents
analysis:
1. responses coverted into numerical values
2. entered into SPSS
3. descriptive stats (means, modes)
4. inferential stats (t-tests etc)
   Free text – grounded theory
strengths:
1. can ask direct Qs
2. not labour intensive
3. gathering coarse data from large numbers
4. responses pre categorised
5. statistically analysed
6. quick analysis
limitations:
1. easy to ask wrong Qs
2. data is coarse
3. no interaction
4. bias introduced by low responses


Semi-structured interviewing
1. identify what you want to find out
2. who has the information
3. select representative sample
4. formulate open ended Qs
5. a set of probes (echo or extension)
6. pilot test
7. collect data
8. analyse data
preparing the interview:
1. defining the Qs- clear, well defined purpose, brief & to the point, avoid ambiguity
2. sequencing the Qs- distinct beginning, middle & end, start with warm up Qs
during the interview:
1. be neutral
2. facilitate the conversation- eye contact, echo, extension
3. don't inhibit the conversation- don't state own opinion, don't disapprove interviewees opinion, don't draw conclusions, don't ask leading Qs 
data recording:
1. confidentiality
2. take notes
3. record
4. pre-coded
5. post interview summary
data analysis:
1. transcribe recording & notes
2. code transcriptions for quantitative analysis
3. qualitative data- anecdotes & quotes
4. quantitative data- categorised qualitative data, provide statistics
strengths:
1. high quality data
2. can ask direct Qs
3. can probe further
4. flexible
5. interactive
6. "hidden agendas"
limitations:
1. expensive
2. time consuming
3. highly skilled
4. interviewer effects
5. standardisation between interviewers
6. response bias


Focus Groups
1. 6 –9 users discuss new concepts and identify issues for about 2 hours
2. run by a moderator
3. relatively informal
4. assesses user needs and feelings
5. can be utilised before interface designed and/or after it has been in use
procedure:
1. preparation- prepare a list of issues, determine the kind of info to gather, gathe users
2. during session- moderator keeps the discussion on track, make sure all members contribute
3. analysis- moderator writes report
strengths:
1. informal
2. peer to peer situation
3. generates spontaneous ideas
limitations:
1. demanding
2. many focus groups required
3. users may think they want one thing when they in fact need another


Ecological validity
1. the ecological validity of any observation made in a laboratory situation is the extent to which the result can be generalised to a real world situation
2. the difference between the lab situation and the real world situation is the Ecological Gap
asks 2 Qs:
1. What have we left out from the lab situation which would be present in the real world?”
2. What have we added in the lab which would not be present in the real world?


slide 40 (week-4-L04-Data-Collection.pdf)


Ethics & Science
responsibility to:
A. Institution- Fabrication or making up, Falsification or manipulating, Plagiarism
B. Public- the Bermuda Agreement - that all human genetic data should immediately be shared online (HapMap publicly available).
C. Experiment participants- 
	principles- voluntary, informed consent, no risk, anonymity, right to a service
	research ethics committees- protect the participants from harm, and also the researcher and the organisation from legal actions. need to balance harm and benefit.
D. Colleagues- peer review, appropriate credit given
E. Students- supervision, lectures etc.
F. Society- 
	What about when the results conflict with cultural beliefs?
	What about when results might be used for harm?
